Newsletters: add 261 (2023-07-26) (#1211)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-07-26-newsletter.md

      payments][topic multipath payments] each worth 0.1 BTC.  Using
      either math (via a technique called _Boomerang_, see [Newsletter
      #86][news86 boomerang]) or layered commitments and an extra
      communication round (called _Spear_), Bob is only able to claim a
      maximum of 10 of the payments; any others that arrive at his node
      are rejected.  The advantage of this approach is that up to 10 of
      Alice's MPP shards can fail to reach Bob without delaying the
      payment.  The downsides appear to be extra complexity and possibly
      (in the case of Spear) slower speed than today in the best case
      where every shard reaches Bob.  The participants discussed whether
      any changes that would help support redundant overpayments could
      be made at the same time as the changes necessary for PTLCs.

    - *Channel jamming mitigation proposals:* a substantial portion of
      the notes summarized discussion about proposals to mitigate
      [channel jamming attacks][topic channel jamming attacks].  The
      discussion started with a claim that no known single solution
      (such as reputation or upfront fees) can satisfactorily address

>       the problem by itself without producing too much downside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      the problem by itself without unacceptable downside.
```

      Reputation by itself must make allowances for new nodes without
      reputation and for the natural rate of failed HTLCs---provisions
      which an attacker can use to cause some level of harm, even if
      it's less than they could today.  Upfront fees by themselves must
      be set high enough to discourage attackers, but that might be high
      enough to also discourage honest users and to create a perverse
      incentive for nodes to deliberately fail to forward a payment.
      Instead, it was proposed that using several methods together might
      obtain the benefits without producing the worst case costs.

      After examining the current understanding, the discussion notes
      focused on details about testing the local reputation scheme
      described in [Newsletter #226][news226 jamming] and setting the
      stage for a later implementation of low upfront fees to go along
      with it.  From the notes, it seemed like the participants
      supported seeing the proposal tested.

    - *Simplified commitments:* participants discussed the simplified

>       commitments protocol (see [Newsletter #120][news120 commitments]),
>       which is an idea to define which peer is responsible for proposing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      commitments protocol (see [Newsletter #120][news120 commitments])
      that defines which peer is responsible for proposing
```

      the next change to the commitment transaction rather than allowing
      either peer to propose a new commitment transaction at any time.
      Putting one peer in charge eliminates the complexity of two
      proposals being sent at roughly the same time, such as both Alice
      and Bob wanting to add an [HTLC][topic htlc] simultaneously.  A
      particular complication discussed in the notes were cases where
      one of the peers didn't want to accept the other's peer's
      proposal, which is a situation that's complicated to address in
      the current protocol.  A downside of the simplified commitment

>       approach was that it may increase latency in some cases, as the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      approach is that it may increase latency in some cases, as the
```

      manages, including the current BOLTs and BLIPs plus other ideas
      for documentation.  The discussion appeared highly varied and no
      clear conclusions were apparent from the notes.

## Selected Q&A from Bitcoin Stack Exchange

*[Bitcoin Stack Exchange][bitcoin.se] is one of the first places Optech
contributors look for answers to their questions---or when we have a
few spare moments to help curious or confused users.  In
this monthly feature, we highlight some of the top-voted questions and
answers posted since our last update.*

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [How can I manually (on paper) calculate a Bitcoin public key from a private key?]({{bse}}118933)
  Andrew Poelstra gives an overview of computation-by-hand verification
  techniques, like [codex32][news239 codex32], before walking through how a
  public key could be hand-derived from a private key, a process he estimates would
  take at least 1500 hours, even with process optimizations.

- [Why are there 17 native segwit versions?]({{bse}}118974)

>   Murch explains that [segwit][topic segwit] defined 17 values (0-16) for the [version bytes][bip341
>   witness program] field because of the existing availability of constant

Reviewer 2: I think this should link to BIP141 rather. I would suggest either “witness version” or “version byte field”, but not “version bytes”:

```suggestion
  Murch explains that [segwit][topic segwit] defined 17 values (0-16) for the [witness version][bip141]
  because of the existing availability of constant
```

or: 

```suggestion
  Murch explains that [segwit][topic segwit] defined 17 values (0-16) for the [version byte][bip141]
  field because of the existing availability of constant
```

Reviewer 3: Renamed the reference link. Changed 'version bytes' to 'witness version'

  only provides 128-bit security. He goes on to point out the difference between
  individual key security as compared to [seed][topic bip32] security.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test release candidates.*

- LDK 0.0.116 FIXME:harding (maybe rename to v116?)

- Rust Bitcoin 0.2 FIXME:harding

<!-- FIXME:harding to update Tuesday -->

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo], and
[Bitcoin Inquisition][bitcoin inquisition repo].*

- [Bitcoin Core GUI #740][] updates the PSBT operations dialog to mark outputs
  paying your own wallet with “own address”. This eases assessment of an

>   imported PSBT’s outcome, especially that the transaction returns change to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  imported [PSBT’s][topic psbt] outcome, especially that the transaction returns change to
```

  channels][topic unannounced channels] and hints are needed to help find a
  route. The other reason is to provide the sender with a list of channels that
  have sufficient balance to complete the payment, a technique he refers to as route boost.

- [What does it mean that the security of 256-bit ECDSA, and therefore Bitcoin keys, is 128 bits?]({{bse}}118928)
  Pieter Wuille clarifies that due to algorithms that can derive a private key
  from a public key more efficiently than a brute-force search, 256-bit ECDSA
  only provides 128-bit security. He goes on to point out the difference between
  individual key security as compared to [seed][topic bip32] security.

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test release candidates.*

- [HWI 2.3.0][] is a release of this middleware that allows software
  walets to communicate with hardware signing devices.  It adds support
  for DIY Jade devices and a binary for running the main `hwi` program
  on Apple Silicon hardware with MacOS 12.0+.

> - [LDK 0.0.116][] is a relase of this library for creating LN-enabled

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- [LDK 0.0.116][] is a release of this library for creating LN-enabled
```

{% comment %}<!-- https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/search?tab=votes&q=created%3a1m..%20is%3aanswer -->{% endcomment %}
{% assign bse = "https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/a/" %}

- [How can I manually (on paper) calculate a Bitcoin public key from a private key?]({{bse}}118933)
  Andrew Poelstra gives an overview of computation-by-hand verification
  techniques, like [codex32][news239 codex32], before walking through how a

>   pubic key could be hand-derived from a private key, a process he estimates would

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  public key could be hand-derived from a private key, a process he estimates would
```

  take at least 1500 hours, even with process optimizations.

- [Why are there 17 native segwit versions?]({{bse}}118974)
  Murch explains that [segwit][topic segwit] defined 17 values (0-16) for the [version bytes][bip341
  witness program] field because of the existing availability of constant
  opcodes OP_0...OP_16 in [Script][wiki script]. He notes that additional
  numbers would require the use of less data-efficient `OP_PUSHDATA` opcodes.

- [Does `0 OP_CSV` force the spending transaction to signal BIP125 replaceability?]({{bse}}115586)
  Murch points to a [discussion][rbf csv discussion] confirming that since both
  the `OP_CHECKSEQUENCEVERIFY` (CSV) [timelock][topic timelocks] and
  Replace-by-Fee ([RBF][topic rbf]) are [enforced]({{bse}}87376) using the `nSequence` field, an
  output with `0 OP_CSV` requires the spending transaction to signal
  [BIP125][] replaceability.

- [How do route hints affect pathfinding?]({{bse}}118755)

>   Christian Decker explains two reasons for why an LN recipient would provide a sender

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Christian Decker explains two reasons an LN recipient would provide a sender
```
Or "... reasons why an ..." (delete "for").
But to me, "reasons" and "why" next to each other seems redundant.
